if your windows looks just like this
after you started your PC with a super
high RAM usage a high amount of
processes and overall it's just really
slow I'm going to show you how you can
fully optimize your windows for gaming
in 2025 not only showing you how to
update your bios fully remove all the
bloatware from your system but also the
best Nvidia settings for gaming and a
whole bunch of other stuff which is
going to improve the performance but
before we do any of this please make
sure guys that you updated your windows
because if you update your windows after
you apply all of these tweaks some of
these settings might again be set to
default so therefore please update it
prior but before we start let's check
out no ping are you tired of having high
ping in fortnite and you wonder how all
your favorite fortnite Pros always seem
to have zero delay what you need for
that is no ping guys your number one
client to reduce your ping in every
single game you guys want to play let's
say you want to play fortnite you just
search it up select it and no ping is
going to give you an overview of all of
the best servers available in your near
and the coolest part is it works on
multiple regions so if you like to play
cash cap on a different region it can
still help you to get the best server so
just select the ever you want to use
click on to optimize this game and noing
is going to automatically help you to
get the best connection possible
additionally they also feature some FPS
boost features and they are all tested
tweaks which are going to help you to
improve your system speed make sure to
check out noing with the link in the
video description in the first laep
we're going to completely focus on
removing Microsoft Edge and all of the
processors as well as one drive from
your PC so many people have no clue that
even if you use Google Chrome Microsoft
Edge is still running in the background
and it takes almost 144 mbit of your RAM
especially if you're on 4 to 16 gigs of
RAM Systems 144 mmit of ram losing just
like that sounds pretty bad to me so
what are we going to use is a program
called wise cleaner and that one you can
find from the link in the video
description all you got to do is go to
the main website and from there on you
can get it once you get the setup
installer on your desktop you're just
simply going to launch it click under
install and accept all the agreements
it's then going to install on your PC
and all you got to do is only check
launch wise program uninstaller and
click under okay then once it fully
loaded up you can already see on the
left side desktop applications Metro
apps and a lot of more and under desktop
apps we already have Microsoft Edge on
the top then you can see Force install
on the right side and this is what we're
going to click on guys because that way
it's going to analyze every single
component of Microsoft Edge on your PC
and fully make sure that everything gets
removed guys this is amazing as you can
see it's going to find completely
everything on your PC just simply click
under remove and then Microsoft Edge is
completely uninstalled from your PC
normally you cannot do this even in
window Windows because you know it's
like the main standard browser but since
we use something else like Google Chrome
or whatever we're going to do this and
the same with Microsoft One Drive I
never used one drive directly from my PC
and it's as well running 24/7 in the
background so again the same thing
select It Go in the force uninstall it's
going to find everything which is
somehow allocated on your PC and all you
got to do is Click under remove then
you're going to wait a little bit and
it's going to be fully uninstalled as
well from your PC and just like that we
freed up 150 160 mbits of Ram which is
pretty good in my opinion already then
we're going to click under Metro apps
and there we're going to continue next
up we have the Xbox app which I really
also don't use on my PC so we're going
to just simply go through this list and
everything where you say hey I don't
need it on my PC make sure that you
uninstall it from here this is the best
W since we have safe uninstall and force
uninstall so that you can actually
remove everything something like
Microsoft teams never really used on my
PC I can easily completely uninstall it
the same as well with quick assist then
we have something like phone link also
used it you know these are all small
processes just running in the background
costing you a little bit and bit of RAM
and the same as well with the game bar I
use OBS for recordings if I go for some
clips or whatever so therefore I can
fully uninstall it as well everything
which is somehow linked to Xbox also has
an insanely large use of ram guys I'm
talking about a ton of ram which you can
free up just like that I mean these are
all running in the background so
therefore you can follow the list as I'm
doing it here right now in the
background just simply uninstalling
everything on a fresh Windows version
which I don't need something like
Microsoft 365 office also don't need it
then the main Xbox app itself also
completely uninstalling it the WEA
[Music]
application next up you can also go
under browser extensions and they can
still see a little bit left here from
Microsoft Edge so what we're going to do
is Click under browser extensions then
we can see Microsoft Edge and we're
going to click onto the small delete
button the same as well for Internet
Explorer for whatever reason this is all
still in even Windows 11 in the latest
build once you're done you're going to
close the tool and you're good to go
with this first step The Next Step might
actually be one of the most important
ones out of this whole entire guide
there are so many people out there who
are playing with an outdated bios and
this can cause so many problems you can
get FPS drops micro freezers additional
latency and more and more a friend of
mine Lally built a PC with an Intel Core
i7 1th gen and artics 4080 and he was
having FPS drops after drops until we
figured out that he actually didn't
update his bios which means he literally
had high specs until now but he was
still rocking the same motherboard
drivers from 2022 which means over all
these years with different software and
new games which are optimized for
current software he was still rocking
these all drivers which were causing his
game to stut and even crash sometimes so
therefore guys please always make sure
that you update your bios that is super
important and what you got to do in the
first place guys is press Windows key
plus r until the small run window
actually pops up and then all you got to
do is type in Ms info 32 that way you
open up the system information and then
all you got to do is look for your
mainboard and the system model for me
it's a z790 gaming X ax so what I did
with that information is I basically
went on Google and typed in my exact
main board then I already found it here
z790 gaming xax supported motherboard
you just simply click onto it and then
all you guys got to do is put of course
the OS to whatever you're rocking right
now which might be Windows 10 or Windows
11 and then all you got to do is find
bios and there you can see there
actually some pretty recent updates from
like September 27 2024 that's pretty
recent for a bios update so I of course
got the latest version and all you need
for this step guys additionally is a USB
drive that is everything it doesn't have
to be a huge drive as you can see this
is only like a 10 20 mbit file really
depending on which motherboard and after
the download was finished and you
plugged in the new USB all you have to
do is open up the current file which you
just downloaded and then most of the
time there's a f11 file in there it's
going to be called exactly like the main
board and it's the largest file in the
whole entire folder you can not really
miss it and all you have to do is just
simply paste it onto that USB St and now
all we have to do is get into our boot
menu and once you're done in your bios
it's going to be on default usually on
easy mode you don't want to be in the
advanced one guys because on easy you
can directly see an lq Flash and this is
what you're going to look for if you
cannot find this directly in your bios
just simply search up your motherboard
with the term Q Flash and you're going
to find it and we're going to go into it
can then see on the left side our
current motherboard our current BIOS
version from when the update is and all
of that and what you want to do is click
here onto update BIOS as it says on the
top it might look a little bit different
for you guys really depending on which
motherboard you have and then all you
got to do is select the current file
from your usb stti it should be here now
on the right side then we're going to
click under this small arrow and it's
going to ask you update BIOS are you
sure you want to update your bios and
we're going to click under yes you can
then see verifying files and all of that
and then all you got to do is press to
start and it's going to automatically
update your bios for me you can see I
already have the latest version so I'm
actually not going to do it here but
this is the whole process next up we're
going to do some core Windows settings
so open up your settings and then we're
going to head over to personalization
then the first T you can see background
we're going to click onto it and once
you in here you can then see personalize
your background and you can put it from
picture actually to solid color which is
going to make it look super boring I
would say but of course it's going to
slightly increase your performance since
there are no animations going on in the
background personally for me I still
keep it on the picture or whatever
background I'm using but it is an option
but next up you're going to go back and
go in the CIS and there can see
transparency effects that one makes
windows and surfaces appear translucent
as it says in the description which
again is a pretty demanding mode so
therefore for me personally I always
keep it off it doesn't really make a
huge difference in terms of visuals for
me we're going to go back again and then
you're going to find actually something
which is going to be called test bar and
in here you can fully disable widgets
which are pretty annoying in my opinion
so therefore I fully disabled them as
well I don't really want to let them run
in the background and next up we're
going to click on the applications on
the left side until we can see installed
apps and in here once again you can go
through this whole entire list and make
sure to uninstall everything which you
don't need on your PC there are just a
few more applications than in the wise
uninstaller so therefore yeah just check
it out and see for yourself if there's
something where you know for a fact that
you don't need it then we're going to go
back and under Advanced app settings
once you're in here you can then see
share across devices as it says in the
description continue app EXP experiences
on other devices I don't reutilize this
again unar process so therefore turn it
off the same as well with archive apps
I'm also turning it completely off and
then we already good to go with here as
well next up we can as well check out
offline maps this here you can also
fully disable as you can see I already
did that next up we're going to head
over to the gaming section on the bottom
once you're in here you can then again
see the game bar where we already
uninstalled a huge chunk of it but we're
also going to disable it in here just to
make sure that it doesn't get reapplied
we also going to click on the graphics
and in here are some of the most
important modes optimize for window
games that one is super important guys
you want to make sure that this one is
turned on and on the advanced Graphics
you can see Hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling that one is by far the most
important mode which every single
Windows user should turn on and why this
is important is quite easy it shifts
frame buffering from CPU over to your
GPU or in other words your CPU kind of
cues up all the frames which then need
to get rendered by a GPU and you can
actually improve this process by
enabling hardw accelerated GPU
scheduling since it enables your GPU to
not only queue up frames but also render
them if you play CPU heavy games this is
definitely a good thing since you're
taking away a little bit of the load of
your CPU that's all you kind of need to
know about it but it's definitely
something which I would recommend for
most large scale Battle Royale games
which are the main ones which I'm
playing right now then once we go one
back to display we can actually then see
scale and layout and my scale is set to
100% recommended and of course your
display resolution on the highest one
which your monitor can output if you're
not playing on a stretch resolution so
therefore do that and then again go to
Advanced display where you can also
select the highest monitor refresh rate
I see so many people are not playing on
their full lest so please just double
check that and for this next up guys
we're also going to take a look at the
power settings so what you're going to
do is type in power plan to your window
search bar until you can see edit power
plan and open it up here on top you're
then going to click under power options
and then you can see my current one is
actually balanced which is pretty bad
you don't want this so what I'm going to
do is open up the hidden additional
plans and there can see high performance
so many people lose so much performance
in all games because they still keep it
on balance or power saver or any of
these and usually if you have a little
bit weaker CPU high performance is
already okay but there's actually
another one which is called ultimate
performance and how you get this one
just simply go on Google and type in the
ultimate performance power PL comment
and then you can straight up copy it
from Google it's not super hard just
simply copy it and go back onto your
desktop and then all you got to do is go
into your windows search bar and type in
there CMD until you can see comment
prompt right click and run as
administrator once the new window opens
up you're going to paste in the
following comment which you just got
from the website and press enter Then
you can see the ultimate performance
mode is enabled so what we're going to
do now is close the window go back into
our power options go maybe one back in
the menu and then again back into power
options so it gets refreshed and then
you can already see the ultimate
performance mode on the bottom provides
ultimate performance on higher end PCS
and this one I would highly recommend
you only for CPUs with four cores or or
more so therefore if you have any
upto-date or somehow up toate CPU from
the last couple years definitely utilize
this one you can try both high and
ultimate performance and see what works
better but for most of you out there who
have a capable gaming PC definitely
ultimate performance is a lot better
Additionally you also going to click
under change plan settings then you're
going to see on the top turn off display
and for me usually I keep this on 1 hour
or you can also put it on never and put
the computer to sleep I also keep on
never but what we now going to do guys
is also click under change Advanced
power setting and in here now you can
find a bunch more settings which I just
want to cover real quick the first one
would be USB settings USB selective
suspended setting and this one here
you're going to open up guys and then
you can see it's right now on enabled
and this one you want to put on disabled
actually process power management
minimum processor State you're going to
keep on 100% And the same as well with
the maximum one guys this is exactly
what the ultimate performance mode does
making sure that you always utilize the
most out of your CPU now under PCI
Express links power management you're
going to keep this setting actually on
off not moderate power saving or maximum
you're going to keep it on off and next
up we have wireless adapter settings
this one you're also going to open up
dates has now power saving mode and this
one you're going to keep on maximum
performance not power saving or anything
like that just maximum performance and
click under okay and you're good to go
with this one as well this is going to
highly increase the performance of your
overall PC especially while gaming now
for this next step I want you to open up
your task manager and if you go under
CPU and see that you have a ton of
processes under there I'm going to show
you exactly how to fix this because a
ton of processes also equal a high
memory usage first of all click on a
startup and make sure that you disable
everything which you don't need every
single time your PC launches that is
super important because once you launch
them accidentally they're staying in the
background and they're just super hard
with the money once you're done with
that you're going to open up your
browser and just simply go on Google and
type in the Chris Titus Tech utility and
then once you got it just simply click
under the first link until you are on
the official website the ultimate
Windows utility you're going to scroll
down a little bit and then you can see
one command and you're going to copy it
once you're done with that go into the
window search bar and tap in that power
shell make sure that you launch just
simply Powershell nothing else besides
that guys just simply Powershell right
click onto it and run it as
administrator once the window opens that
up guys you're going to paste in the
following comment which you just get
from the website and you got to press
enter and just simply wait for the
utility to start this is the nice part
about it you don't have to get anything
from the Internet it's going to do
everything automatically once we end the
utility we're going to click Under The
Tweak section and there we now have
recommended settings which are standard
where you can see a whole bunch of
settings are selected or minimal which
is kind of like the light version of it
but I would highly recommend you the
standard version it basically deletes a
bunch of unnecessary services and the
best part about it is it automatically
creates a restop point so therefore you
don't have to be worried you can also
hover over everything and it gives you a
small detailed description of what it
does but all these services are really
safe to deactivate just to speed up your
window since has so much bloodb but
before we do that we scroll down and
actually run o and O shup 10 this one
basically disables a bunch of privacy
settings where Microsoft or Windows
better set is just collecting even more
data of your PC and what we're going to
do is click on actions and apply only
recommended settings it's going to ask
you again do you want to do a Resto
point of course then you can see a 109
settings have been applied so therefore
just simply click under okay and you can
see a whole bunch of these services are
disabled which is also going to speed up
your PC then we're going to go back into
the Chris tius Tech utility and make
sure that we click under run tweaks and
now once you check in the Powershell
itself guys you can see it's going to
create first of all a restore point and
then apply all of the tweaks in the
background of course depending on your
system speed it's may be going to take a
little bit longer or shorter but don't
be worried that guys just simply let it
run in the background and the utility is
going to do everything for you as
mentioned you have a restart point so
therefore don't be worried if something
happens you can just simply go back to
the restart point and your windows is
just like before applying these tweaks
and once it's done guys it's going to
say tweaks are finished and all you
going to have to do is basically close
the window itself it's also going to
show you that some volume on your main
Drive is also freed up and now just
simply restart your PC and now once I
restarted my PC guys you can see it's
only down to 72
processors and 2.6 gigs of RAM usage
that is such a huge difference to what
we had in the beginning so therefore
deep loting is really the best way to
speed up your PC and yeah I mean we have
so much more RAM which we can use for
anything else I mean this is just a
windows known idle and now for this next
step I'm I'm about to show you the best
Nvidia control panel settings for gaming
in 2025 first of all open up the Nvidia
control panel of course guys and once
we're not in here we're going to take a
quick look at the top left where it says
adjust image settings with preview just
simply click onto it and here you want
to make sure that you use the advaned 3D
image settings guys and click under take
me there now I'm about to show you the
best settings right now here guys so
that you can copy them straight up image
scaling should be turned off ambient
occlusion turned off anti stopic
filtering on application controlled
anzing FXAA you're going to keep on off
gamma correction on on antalizing mode
on application controlled antalizing
transparency on off and background
application maximum frame rate on off as
well Cuda gpus there you're just simply
going to select your main GPU of your PC
if you have integrated Graphics as well
now DSR factors is kind of cool
especially if you play single player
games because you can upscale your
native resolution of your monitor like
for me this is a 1080p monitor but I can
go up all the way even to 4K which is
pretty cool if you ask me so therefore I
selected two of these settings here you
can select whatever you guys want to
play on of course the higher the pixels
are the more demanding it's going to be
so for me I only have two options you
actually applied and the smoothness
factor you're going to leave on 33%
which is the native setting then for the
low latency mode guys so many Pros
arguing which one is better on Ultra but
actually many tests have shown that on
is the best option in here so therefore
you want to use the low latency mode on
on maximum frame rate this one is also
kind of interesting because you can lock
your FPS just a little bit over your
average you know to prevent thermal
throttling that you your PC doesn't
unnecessarily produce like super high
FPS even though your monitor cannot
showcase it and it's overheating kind of
a cool feature for me personally I keep
it on off but you can experiment around
with it multiframe sampled AA you're
going to keep on off openg GL GDI
compability you're going to leave on
automatic open GL rended GPU of course
on your main one again which for me is
Artic 490 power management mode of
course on prefer maximum performance
preferred refresh rate of course and the
highest available you don't want to
leave this on application control just
straight up the highest available and
Shader cach size I leave on 10 gigs but
actually guys what I would recommend you
is to go from time to time into your
window search but and just simply type
in the temporary files once you're going
to do that go into temporary files on
the top and you want to make sure that
everything is unchecked except di X
Shader cache and Shader cach are
basically data which get created to kind
of speed up applications and especially
games and load times you know to hop
into games faster but especially with a
new season or a new update these can be
corrupted so therefore from time to time
you want to actually delete them so they
get recreated it even says in the
description don't be worried that they
get recreated and it might take one or
two games but then afterwards it's going
to run a lot better then for anti stopic
sample optimization you're going to
leave it on on that one actually helps
with performance LOD bias you're going
to leave just simply on allow since
we're not changing the level of detail
directly then the texture fot quity
you're going to leave on high
performance then trilling optimization
on on again then for threed optimization
just simply leave it on on all the games
which are released especially nowadays
are super good with basically deciding
how many cores and threets they need
unless you're maybe playing something
like CS2 you know which is running on
Source 2 there you maybe want to apply a
launch option but for most games just
simply keep it on auto triple buffering
and vertical syn both completely turned
off unless you're maybe playing on 60 or
75 htz with a ton of screen tiering that
could potentially help but all you want
to do is just simply keep it on off and
then just simply click under apply next
up we want to go under change resolution
and there again you want to select your
main monitor go into the maximum
supported resolution and please put it
again on the highest refresh rate so
many people are missing out there then
we're going to go under adjust desktop
color settings select your main Monitor
and what you can do is actually turn up
the digital Vibrance to plus 75% to make
your overall screen look a lot nicer
guys to boost this effect as well go to
adjust video color settings select your
MTO again go with Nvidia settings and
put your saturation to plus 75% as well
that way your games are going to look
amazing next up guys I want to talk
about something very important as well
which can drastically improve the
performance of your Windows PC as you
can see if I'm right now taking a look
at my test manager my Ram is actually
only running at 4,800 MHz but I know for
a fact that the ram which I'm using is
dd5
7,200 so I'm actually missing out on a
ton of performance which might be the
case for a bunch of you especially if
you have a pre-u PC so I'm going to show
you how you can utilize the maximum
which is called using an XMP profile and
what I want you to do in the first place
guys is please make sure to check which
Ram you guys are using so therefore
Maybe take out a stick of ram from your
PC and once you take a look here right
now this stick is DDF 5 with 6,000 MHz
and cl 32 38 38 96 you have to remember
the number before which is the maximum
Hertz your RAM can do which for this one
is as mentioned 6,000 and then the four
numbers after CL those you need to
remember before we go into the bias so
you need to again go into a boot menu
which for me right now here is F12
[Music]
guys and once you're in your bias again
this EX how it's going to look like and
this time we actually want to go for the
advanced mode guys it's going to be
called Advanced or extra or however
really depending on your manufacturer
for me since I'm using a gigabyte main
board this is exactly how it's going to
look like and once you're not in here
you're going to go under tweaker yeah
it's going to be called Advanced tweaker
something like that and in here now
we're going to search for the ram
section you can see already ddr5 Auto
booster high band withd low latency and
something which is called dd5 XMP
booster for you it might not be called
df5 but dd4 read depending on which Ram
you have again but all you got to look
for is XMP going to double click onto it
and now I can see a whole entire list
here of all the different XMP profiles
and for you this might be super
confusing but don't be worried because I
know for a fact that my Ram is actually
from coair and the actual profile itself
is called HX so I know I only have to
look for HX in this huge list here I
don't have to care about Micron or all
the other ones I think there's also
Samsung here all I have to care about is
highx and now since I check the exact
timings of my Ram I can look now for
7,200 MHz and I need a 36 46 46 and 1161
if I check the other 7,200 profiles you
can see it starts with 48 42 but all I
care about is the 36 one which is right
here and I know it says 36 46 46 and 115
but there's always like a small
difference of like one unit so therefore
this is going to be the closest one to
116 you know so therefore this is
definitely the one which I need because
as you can see there's also one above
but it only goes to 6,800 MHz but I know
for a fact because of the packaging and
the ram which I bought that it goes
secured up to 7,200 so I'm going to
select this profile here make sure to
press enter to select it fully double
check again if it's the right numbers 36
46 46 and 116 which as mentioned one
unit off is totally fine and now all I'm
going to do is Click under save and exit
on the top and now get save and exit set
up then it's going to ask me do you read
want to save the configuration I'm going
to click under yes and wait for my PC to
fully restart and now you can see guys
we're running it at 7,200 MHz which is
an insane performance increase I mean
from 4,800 to 7,200 is definitely a nice
benefit I mean you're just making sure
that you're actually getting what you're
paying for and especially in fast-paced
games and applications like ad do
Premier Pro this can make a huge
performance difference